I have successfully recreated autogen
from scratch with the new open AI
assistance API here is their famous
example featuring a chart of YTD meta
and Tesla stock prices that was made by
my system consisting of just two agents
A coding assistant and a user proxy
agent but the best part is that this
system is much more controllable and
customizable which means unlike autogen
it is actually Deployable in production
I will show you exactly how you can add
more agents to the system at the end of
this video video so make sure to stay
tuned for that let's get
started all right open the notebook from
the description and let's install the
packages which are open Ai and
instructor if you haven't heard about
instructor this is a library created by
Jason Leo that allows us to Define open
AI functions as PID dentica this is an
absolutely genius way to do this because
it is much more convenient than Json and
also provides additional features like
input and output validation it is the
only library that I consistently use in
production When developing llm
applications and we actually recently
had a call with Jason so hopefully we'll
release some highlights soon we will
also create a small convenience function
to print WRA text outputs now let me
explain how the assistant API works
because it is quite different from the
previous chat completions approach in
this new API there are threats that
represent conversations messages that
represent individual messages within the
threats and agents that execute the
threats to generate new messages I know
it can be really confusing at first but
the general process is as follows first
you have to create an agent then you
have to create a threat next you have to
add a message to this threat after that
you have to create a run for this threat
with your threat and agent IDs the big
change here is that runs execute
asynchronously so you have to
continuously check for updates until the
run is finished and finally once that's
done the Run goes into either the
completed or requires action status if
it's incompleted it means that you can
safely retrieve the threat with the new
assistant message while if it's in
requires action it means that you have
to run your function pass the output
back and run the thread again to get the
message but to simplify the entire
process and make it familiar for all of
us who are so used to the previous
version of the open AI API I have
created a function called get completion
that essentially goes through all the
steps that I have just described in the
loop until the final assistant response
is received check out the dog string for
more details you might want to copy this
function for your own project now let's
go ahead and create our first code
assistant agent which will be
responsible for generating and executing
code locally we'll begin with the tools
that this agent will utilize defined
with the instructor Library the first
tool execute Pi file will run an
existing python file from disk taking a
file name as a parameter in the Run
function inside this model will execute
the file with Python 3 using the
subprocess module and then capture any
outputs or errors our second function
named file serves to write the file onto
the disk for later execution accurate
descriptions are crucial here and as you
can see by using the instructor Library
you can actually Define them directly in
the dog strings or the field
descriptions associated with each
specific parameter inside the model
which is extremely convenient we'll also
add an additional parameter Chain of
Thought this is another ingenious
technique introduced by Jason Leo this
parameter forces the model to map out
each action step by step before
proceeding with the function execution
this makes our agent more accurate on
certain complex tasks without the need
to use the Chain of Thought prompt
globally as out ofendas which
significantly increases the token usage
and latency in production next we'll add
both of these functions into an array to
be used later in our get completion
function and create our code assistant
using the new beta assistance API for
the instructions we state that our code
assistant is a top tier programming AI
specializing in creating precise Python
scripts we will also tell it to ensure
that the code is executed before
providing a response to the user I
decided to design this system by
following a typical kubernetes cluster
architecture where the user proxy agent
is essentially acting as a load balancer
that distributes requests to specialized
individual agents and Converses with
them until the task is fully executed
therefore the only tool that the user
proxy agent will need is a send message
tool to send messages to other
specialized agents it has two parameters
a recipient and a message the Run call
in this function actually calls our
previous method get completion with a
separate threat for each agent making
our system sort of recursive I say sort
of because it has only one level of
recursion after the main Loop that also
uses the get completion function but I
actually believe that recursion is the
only way to achieve a ji because
everything else implies that we have to
provide predefined instructions to
achieve the given task which is not
really general intelligence as I said
before I will show you later how to
create more agents if this video gets a
lot of views I can turn it into an open
source project and try to create an
agent that creates other agents and
tools so please like this video and
share it if that's something that you
want to see to ensure that our proxy
agent has a separate conversation with
each of the other agents in this group
chat we will store separate threads for
each agent in a global object called
agents and threats finally we can Define
the user proxy agent itself with some
instructions that you can check out on
your own the most important part here is
that the user proxy agent must maintain
ongoing communication with the other
agents until the task is fully completed
the instructions that you pass to the
user proxy agent have a huge impact on
the behavior of the whole system so
definitely make sure to play around with
that to launch this system simply create
a new thread and start an infinite Loop
that prompts for user message gets a
completion from the user proxy agent and
then prints a response that's it now we
are ready to test this system I'll run
it with a famous example from autogen
for creating a graph of stock prices for
meta and Tesla starting with the first
question what is today's date as you can
see the user proxy agent immediately
calls the code agent with a given task
although the first time it might not get
the recipient name right it immediately
corrects itself and then the code
execution agent starts to execute the
file function the function calls are
displayed in red color and the function
outputs are displayed in yellow after
the code assistant agent writes the code
to to the file it executes it and
Returns the current date to the user
proxy agent which this agent then prints
for us below so in this conversation the
user proxy agent Converses with the
other agents through the send message
function basically when it needs to chat
with other agents it calls this function
with the message which the other agents
then receive as the user message after
the other agent responds we pass it back
as the output of the send message
function this allows for a more natural
conversation flow where the user proxy
agent can and chat with the other agents
as much as needed directly from the main
chat with the user just by calling this
send message function let's try to run
the second question compare the
year-to-date gain for meta and Tesla now
the user proxy agent immediately asks
the code assistant to provide the yd
gain and then the code assistant
proceeds with creating the Chain of
Thought prompt and writing the code
itself as you can see it gets it on the
first try and then Returns the actual
numbers using the Y Finance library for
the final question let's ask the user
proxy to plot the stock price change and
save it to the stock price with DPG file
after the code assistant executes the
necessary code the user proxy confirms
that the file has been successfully
saved you can verify this by browsing
the files on the left as you can see the
resulting graph looks exactly like the
one generated by autogen however our
system actually did it in far less
tokens wasted nevertheless there are a
few things that you can still improve
which I'm going to discuss next first of
all this system does not currently
support conversations between the the
agents that execute the tasks it only
supports the conversation between the
user proxy with these agents this is not
necessarily a bad thing however because
this improves the overall steerability
of the system and helps to prevent
infinite Loops however you can easily
adjust this by adding more threats into
the agents and threats objects and also
allowing other agents to use the send
message function second sometimes it
feels like the user proxy agent still
doesn't fully understand the
instructions I've played with the prompt
for a little bit but it could certainly
use some improvement and third as I said
before you could actually make a tool
for the user proxy agent that would
allow it to create other agents and
tools if you actually manage to do this
I believe it could lead to exponential
growth and a complete Humanity
Extinction in the next few months now
all jokes aside let's try to add new
agents to our system to do so first you
have to create the tools that the agent
will use using the pantic schemas with
the instructor Library as we did before
to get started quicker you can simply
copy the code for the code assistant
agent and replace any tools as needed
then add this new agent to the agents
and threads objects and create the
assistant using the new beta assistant
API you can also add out of the box
tools like web browsing and code
interpreter after creating your new
agent add its name to the recipient
literal in a send message function and
describe what this agent should do in
the property description then after
running all the CES again run the main
Loop and your second task execution
assistant should now be live in
conclusion the best thing about creating
custom agent SWS with the assistant API
is that they're actually usable in
production unlike other multi-agent
systems here you have full control over
the creation of new agents and tools you
can easily add any guard rails for your
specific use case or even Implement any
custom logic making this system easily
steerable and adaptable for instance I
decided to design this example with a
single responsibility principle in mind
SRP is a common practice for building
scalable systems that implies that each
component should have only one specific
respons ability this allows you to
easily add more components or replace
existing components as needed so let me
know in the comments if you still think
that AI will be achieved with one super
intelligent model and thousands of tools
or rather by scaling thousands of
smaller agents together and lastly for
those who need help building their own
custom agent SWS feel free to reach out
to me thank you for watching and don't
forget to
subscribe